fashion personality you can buy it's
what makes some people look fun and
fabulous and what makes most men in
their 20s wear variations of a plaid
button-up shirt every single day
listen I've decided I'm not even gonna
try I'm just gonna wear versions of this
until I'm dead that's it we buy a lot of
clothes in this country in 2013
Americans purchased on average 64 items
per person and were able to do that
because clothing is incredibly cheap
these days as you know if you've ever
turned on your TV in the morning the
price of this dress shocked a lot of
people in our office $39.99 LC by Lauren
Conrad $35 that's our music this is a
dress by Norma Kamali it is $24 get out
get out seriously get out security get
her out of here there is no way that
dress is $24 go yourself you lied to me
look for the consumer low prices are
fantastic and nowadays those clothes
will even look good because trendy
clothing is cheaper than ever and cheap
clothing is trendy than ever and this is
largely thanks to the rise of so-called
fast-fashion retailers that produce
stylish incredibly low cost clothing
like H&M Zara and forever 21 the brand
that enables Midwestern tweens to dress
like 40 something alcoholics attending
the funeral over Tel Aviv nightclub
owner
it's a powerful look and a big part of
all these brands appeal is that there's
always something new to buy just look at
H&M s rate of turnover stores are
replenished daily from the streets to
the runway the latest trends are scoured
and can go from a sketch to the rack in
little as three weeks we have new
garments coming into the stores almost
every day so if you go to an H&M store
today and come back to this later you
will always find something new yes one
day maybe you will find a shirt and it
shares rising swag
maybe next day you'll find shirt with
pardon my swag and make me next day
after that you find cocaine dusted copy
of nylon magazine in a fitting room
something new at H&M always always a to
those prices are so competitive that a
few years back they put out a dress that
cost just $4.95 think about that that
means you could take a five dollar bill
scotch tape it over your genitals and
you'd be wearing a more expensive piece
of clothing I went online and a jar of
crickets food costs $5 a bunch of weird
orange cubes you feed to a bug a worth
five cents more than this dress that
dress is only seven cents more than a
DVD of the ghosts of Girlfriends Past
inexpensive DVD raves variety and yes
some how fast fashion companies are
massively profitable the chairman of H&M
is the 28th richest person in the world
and the co-founder of Zara is the fourth
richest person in the world that means
people who own oil fields are worth less
than a guy who makes distressed jean
shorts buying clothes is cheaper and
easier than ever and not just at fast
fashion companies traditional retailers
have lowered their prices as well which
means the only way brands make money is
through volume and that's why even
basics like jeans now go through fashion
cycles with the lifespan of mayflies
obviously the big trend is skinny jeans
so for spring forget about the skinny
jean now it's all about the flare Jean
jeans are the big thing for spring Jonah
is wearing the it Jean of the season
and that is the baggy jeans she's
marrying these two trends that have been
so controversial the culotte and the
denim we got a denim culottes denim
culottes finally an answer to the
question what if an 18th century cabin
boy was also Canadian as great as all
these stylish cheap clothes are at a
certain point it's hard not to look at
those prices and wonder how does any
clothing company make money although
let's be honest you know the answer to
that half of our clothing used to be
made in the United States as recently as
1990 it's remarkable and today 2% 2%
percent of the clothes we wear are made
here that's right we produce clothes
almost entirely overseas where it's much
cheaper and if 98% of your products
could be made abroad you should really
start changing your name to reflect that
fact so American Eagle should really
become Bangladeshi swan pen and Banana
Republic should really become actually
that one is fine they they got ahead of
themselves there for once and and look I
know you think you've heard this story
before because you have if you remember
in the 1990s sweatshops were a key point
of outrage companies like GAAP and Nike
were protested and then of course most
famously there was this Kathie Lee
Gifford said she was shocked to learn
that a clothing line bearing her name
was manufactured at least in part in
sweatshops and by underage workers yes
Kathie Lee's clothing line was caught
using child labor which was surprising
given how kindly she'd always treated
the small elderly boy who co-hosted her
show and the outcry over sweatshops
wasn't just loud it got some results
Kathie Lee even testified in front of
Congress we are now morally compelled to
ask each of us what can we do to protect
labor rights in factories around the
world and right here in America and
given that it was my own neglect that
compelled us to ask this important moral
question I say to you all you are
welcome now let's start day drinking
come on what's wrong with you people
it's
9:00 a.m. Cheers
good morning but amazingly and I know
this is hard to hear Kathy Lee did not
solve everything in fact there has been
a pattern of troubling behavior in the
garment industry for the past 20 years
just look at Gap the nation's number one
supplier of polo shirts for frat guys to
vomit on back in the 90s they were
criticized for labor abuses of a factory
making their clothes in El Salvador in
response they agreed to start an
independent monitoring program which
certainly pretty good to everyone
besides they had that fun ad where
idiots in ill-fitting khakis swing dance
so we kind of forgot all about it until
five years later when the BBC visited a
factory making Gap clothing in Cambodia
we've been told there were some children
here making clothes for the gap this is
son Teeter
she's 12 years old she told the factory
she's 18 this is chance eater she's 14
she too lied to get the job monitors
never questioned either of them oh come
on that is no excuse if a child gained
entry to a bar using a Pinkberry punch
card as a fake ID it's the bars
fault oh it says here your middle name
is one free topping cool middle name
have fun in there in response gap
revoked approval of that factory and
enhanced their age verification
requirements which sounded pretty good
besides it was the year 2000 and they
had that ad campaign wear pastel morons
did the man bold so we kind of forgot
all about it again until 7 years after
that when a British newspaper visited a
workshop in India according to a
published report these children aged 10
to 13 were working as virtual slaves
stitching embroidered shirts for Gap
Kids okay
stop having children make clothes for
gap is bad enough having them make
clothes for Gap Kids is somehow worse
make a beautiful shirt that's exactly
your size we'll ship it around the world
will be worn once and thrown away now
make a thousand more
for me in response GAAP said it didn't
know it's clothes were in that workshop
and demanded its supplier make
significant improvements to its
oversight of subcontractors and everyone
felt better especially because it was
2007 and gap had just had that
mind-blowingly cool holiday in your hood
campaign with common fell into the gap
day back in the hood seen peace in the
streets when I look I know we're talking
about child labor but that may be the
saddest that I felt so far then in 2010
a fire broke out at a factory in
Bangladesh that produced Gap clothing
killing 29 workers after that gap
launched a building and fire safety plan
which was great because it meant nothing
alarming concerning gaps presence in
Bangladesh was ever going to happen
again until 2013 when Al Jazeera found
this there's no fire extinguisher no
fire exit it's just a Shack in someone's
backyard how old
how long have you been working here
[Music]
luckily Journal says Old Navy old Navy
is owned by Gap Inc yeah I guess at this
point it seems sweatshops aren't one of
those 90s problems we got rid of like
Donnie Wahlberg they're more like one of
those 90s problems were still very much
dealing with like Mark Wahlberg
now gap says those Old Navy jeans were
rejected products sold without their
knowledge and never ended up in their
stores look all brands in the industry
have problems gap is by no means the
worst and if you ask gap as we did
they'll point out they've made real
improvements and tried as hard as they
can to fix all this but think about that
that means a company trying as hard as
it can has been not infrequently
connected to labor violations in
multiple countries over two decades and
when you weigh all this up it seems the
only situation in which gap could claim
to be unambiguously helpful to people is
when someone shits their pants directly
outside one of their stores I never
thought I'd say this but thank God gap
is here to help you people are angels
and one of the biggest problems with
holding many brands accountable is that
deniability seems to being stitched into
the supply chain look at Walmart they
insist they hold their suppliers to high
safety standards but CPS visited a
factory in Bangladesh making clothes for
Walmart and found otherwise the boss at
Mondi apparel's masa del hoc Chowdhury
showed us an evacuation map marking the
location of 13 fire extinguishers but
nearly all of them were missing well if
they're not there then that's not a map
it's an aspirational poster for fire
safety
but if that Factory does not conform to
Walmart safety standards how were their
clothes there the managers told us the
factory hasn't been approved by Walmart
for production but they still had an
order for a million Walmart boxer shorts
subcontracted to them by another Factory
I see so Walmart sent it to an approved
Factory and that factory sent it to an
unapproved factory without Walmart's
knowledge it's just a crazy
one-in-a-million
random accident that only happened
multiple times over the past few years
Walmart's say their clothing suppliers
in Bangladesh were doing business with
the factory without their knowledge one
of its suppliers subcontracted part of
the order to tessarin without their
permission the order was placed with a
troubled factory without its knowledge
it had no idea of production ever
happened there and this is not the first
time Walmart has been caught unaware no
it's not and they are losing the right
to act surprised
they're like the characters in The
Hangover movies it's it's not an
accident the third time boys it's a
pattern of reckless behavior which has
to be addressed and look since the 90s
we've sporadically cared about this
including two years ago this week after
the Rana Plaza building collapse five
days after that deadly building collapse
in Bangladesh rescuers continue to pull
survivors from the rubble new pictures
overnight show dramatic rescue some
using their bare hands to free those who
are still trapped at least 360 people
have been killed hundreds more still
missing that building collapse ended up
killing more than 1,100 people everyone
was justifiably horrified and that
report aired on The Today Show so you
know that everyone there heard it we
then found out that brands like Joe
Fresh and The Children's Place had been
made in Rana Plaza and we were horrified
again and yet we get so blinded by low
prices that just a few months later The
Today Show was doing this this adorable
sequined bag is from the children's
place I found it for under $10 Wow
want to spend a ton of money cuz you're
gonna spill something on it I found this
one which is a silk poly blend from Joe
fresh touch it 119 bucks get out get out
get the felt of the studio and think
about what you're doing because one of
the ladies cooing over that $19 Joe
fresh blouse is Kathie Lee Gifford and
if she can forget the human cost of
shockingly cheap clothing then that is
not in that case actually that's
surprising her brain is basically
pickled in Chardonnay at this point but
it doesn't give you much hope for
everyone else look this is going to keep
happening as long as we let it so we
need to show clothing brands not just
that we care but why they should so we
have a little surprise for the leaders
of some of these companies I'm talking
specifically about the heads of hmm of
Walmart of Gap of Joe Fresh and of The
Children's Place I bought all of you
lunch which will be turning up to your
office tomorrow now full disclosure I do
not know exactly how this food was made
I told someone who may have told someone
else to get the most food they could for
the cheapest price and and they did that
now I do have strict policies in place I
told them not to spit on that food or to
rub their balls on that food and I've
trusted them to abide by that so I want
you to look at the suspiciously cheap
food that lands on your desks tomorrow I
don't want you to King eat it and if you
are thinking well I can't do that I
don't know where it came from
what if someone rubbed their balls on it
then I don't know what to tell you other
than now do you understand the
importance of supply chain management
but why am I telling you about your
lunch when I can show you introducing
the spring collection of your lunch
tomorrow first please welcome
Dave is wearing an old Navy shirt and
shorts by his total outfit cost of 23 78
and he's carrying the frightening ly
cheap sushi platter that will be
arriving at your office tomorrow thank
you Dave let's move on to Walmart
Christian is modeling both a summer maxi
dress available for under $15 and d'tre
a flautist that we got for just a dollar
75 each which is so close to being free
it's literally nauseating moving on to
Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe Fresh and often is
pairing a sweatshirt and casual pant
that cost under $40 how is it so cheap
it's a mystery much like the contents of
that gigantic pile of cheap dumplings
that you will be eating tomorrow Thank
You Austin let's move on to our H&M
collection we paired hailey sub $20
jeans and blouse with shrimp and salmon
base 3 for 5 which will be genuinely
arriving at your Stockholm offices
tomorrow I'm guessing that you will
smell it before it gets into the room
and finally thank you thank you
finally please welcome to Children's
Place and say hello to Elliot she's
wearing an adorable white summer dress
which cost less than 15 dollars and up
what's that she's pulling that would be
your lunch a selection of dirt cheap
rotisserie chickens just to reiterate I
have no idea where they came from or
what might have happened to them along
the way but Elliot sure wants you to eat
them isn't that right Elliot
exactly
8:8 them each this wagon of mystery
chickens
[Applause]
you